Please welcome our first
presenter of the morning,
Director Hardware Storage, Alex Grossman.
Good morning, everyone.
Thank you very much for getting
up early on a Friday morning after
a really great night last night.
I appreciate everybody
being able to do that.
We're going to start this morning.
We've got a lot to cover,
and hopefully it's going to
be very useful to everyone.
I've got a pretty full agenda,
and I've got some great guest speakers
to talk to us about some real-world
stuff that we're going to talk about.
But before we do that,
I want to go through some
calisthenics in the morning.
So we're going to use our right
hand and our left hand a little bit.
So to get an idea, just to help us,
give me an idea of how many people
are familiar with the terms that
I'm just going to relate here.
First one is DAS,
direct attached storage.
How many people are deploying
direct attached storage today?
Okay, not that many.
How many people are
familiar with the term NAS,
or network attached storage?
And how many people are deploying
network attached storage?
Oh, a lot of people.
And how about the last one is SAN,
storage area networks?
And how many people are deploying those?
Okay.
Okay, that's great.
So for the other hand,
we've got to use the
other hand for this one.
How many people are familiar
with fiber channel networking?
Okay, great.
And how about iSCSI?
Not too many?
OK, great.
Fantastic.
So let's get started.
Let's talk a little bit about the
agenda and what we're going to cover.
First thing I want to do is-- oh,
last question is,
how many people today have Xserve RAIDs?
Cool.
Okay.
So first thing I'm going to
do is give you a little quick
refresher on the Xserve RAID,
talk about what's unique about it.
And, you know,
we're seeing a year or so ago, you know,
Apple was probably the only one out
there in a Tier 1 storage vendor
with an ATA-based RAID system.
We're seeing a lot more ATA out there,
but not all of them are created equal,
and we think we have something
unique in the Xserve RAID.
Then we're going to talk just a
little bit about RAID basics and
where we see that whole market
going and what's going on there,
and then a lot about storage
planning and what it's really like
to plan a deployment in storage.
And then we have one of the biggest
areas that we get questions in,
and this is constant from people,
is they really don't understand,
what do I do in fiber
channel infrastructure?
What does it really look like?
What should it look like?
What's the future look like?
You know,
the costs have been really high,
and we want to take a stab at what
it's really going to look like.
So we're really happy to have...
Qlogic's SAN architect with us,
Ryan Klein, so we're going to have him
come up and talk about that.
And then we have a customer deployment,
a real life example of where
we actually had Apple and some
partners get together and do a great
deployment for one of our customers.
Then we're going to wrap it up a
little bit and talk a little bit
about best practices and some Q&A.
Sound like fun?
Good, so let's get started.
First thing is let's talk about
Xserve RAID and what it really is.
So Xserve RAID is really a storage base.
It's a storage building block.
So it's a high
availability design system.
It's a 3U enclosure, basically.
It can scale up to 3.5 terabytes,
and it can scale up to
nearly 400 megabytes per
second sustained throughput.
So that is really in read and
write performance very high
and very competitive with
systems that cost a lot more.
The other thing about Xserve RAID is
that it's extremely versatile.
So it can be used in a DAS deployment,
and we'll call that our
SCSI replacement strategy.
It can be used with combining it
with an Xserve G5 or an Xserve
or even a Power Mac and use it
in a NAS type of configuration.
And it has capabilities in it that
allow it to be used as standalone
or combined with other systems to
build great SAN infrastructure.
Probably the most important
thing about Xserve RAID is
the high availability design.
And what I mean by that is that
everything in the box is swappable.
So the design really lends
itself from systems that have
cost a lot more money to run.
So it's a very versatile system.
It's a system that costs a lot
more money traditionally where the
components are either completely
redundant or they're swappable easily.
And so the downtime,
usually there's none,
but if there's ever downtime,
it's usually extremely minimal.
And that comes from just looking
at the front of the system where
you see 14 hard drives that can
easily be unplugged from the system.
And in the back of the system,
what you see is you see a clean design,
an Apple design from the ground up.
We didn't start with existing designs or
use pieces or parts that were out there.
We actually started clean
to design a system that had
high availability built in.
And we have redundant power,
redundant cooling.
We have hot swappable
components throughout,
warm swappable RAID controllers.
We have a passive midplane for the data.
And so what you end up with if
you pull all the components out is
you end up with a metal box with a
midplane or a board in the middle that
does passive signaling through it.
So very easy to change and
update the system as you need to.
So this is one of the great
points of the XSERV RAID.
Now, beyond the high availability design,
one of the things that really sets
Xserve RAID apart from a lot of the other
systems out there is the management.
We chose to go with a Java-based
management tool for Xserve RAID,
and it's something that we've
updated constantly since we
introduced the Xserve RAID.
In fact, what you're going to see,
and one of the things
I can tell you about now,
is you're going to see an update
to the RAID admin utility that's
actually happening next week.
And I was very fortunate last year to be
able to show you a significant update.
This one's a little smaller,
but it's a performance update.
So we're constantly
updating the performance and
scalability of the Xserve RAID.
The beauty of the RAID admin
utility is it allows you to do
monitoring of one or even hundreds
of systems from a single screen.
And it also allows you to manage
these systems very easily and do
all the management tasks remotely.
And that was mainly driven by people
like me who just are lazy and,
you know, don't want to get up
early in the morning.
They find out what's
going on in your system.
They just want to do it from home.
And the other thing is we've added
more and more SAN capabilities and high
availability features like LUN masking
and mapping to the system and things like
being able to rebuild parity on the fly.
And we're doing a lot more of that.
And when the new release comes out,
you're going to see a lot more of
those capabilities just built in.
So this is really a tool that
is built for every platform,
yet it looks stunning
on the Mac platform.
It's really a phenomenal tool.
The other thing about Xserve RAID,
and this was a request that we
had here last year from just
about everybody who attended,
was that we had people deploying
Xserve RAID on a number of
platforms beyond the Mac,
but we hadn't gone through the actual
certification and compatibility.
Yet it was kind of funny that our
customers really drove us there.
In fact, there was a website
that went up last year,
and it's still extremely active.
It's called alienraid.org,
and it's really exciting.
And alienraid.org,
they were really the first people,
it was a group of people
who actually said,
did you know that the Xserve
RAID works on Windows,
and that it works on Solaris,
and it works on AIX?
And they really went through the
step-by-step features of actually
showing you how you would install it.
And most of those were,
plug the cables in, turn it on.
So it was really pretty simple overall.
But what we did over the last
year is we asked our customers,
who were the infrastructure partners
that they really wanted on Xserve RAID?
And we're open.
If you have suggestions as to
who else you'd like to see,
we're very open to do that.
And we chose what we felt
were the best of the best.
And those are people like
Qlogic and Veritas and Emulex
and Brocade and Candera,
and people that you really,
really care about.
And then also the
traditional Apple vendors,
like Addo Technology,
where we really felt they would
add a lot to the platform.
But of course, we had to look at popular
operating systems as well.
Now, I think everybody in here realizes
that we work very well on Mac OS X,
but we're also certified on Red Hat.
And that's their advanced 2.1 and 3,
also on Yellow Dog Linux,
which actually runs on our platforms,
and Novell, and Novell 5, Novell 6,
Novell 6.5, Windows 2000, surprisingly,
Windows 2003,
and Windows XP Professional.
So all those certifications
have been done,
and we're continuing to
certify Xserve RAID on more.
So this way you have guaranteed
compatibility for the system,
and not only in Mac and
all Mac installations,
but also in heterogeneous
installations where it's simple.
And I'd just like to get a show.
How many people have a heterogeneous
installation of the Xserve RAID?
Wow, that's a lot more than
I've seen in a long time,
so that's great.
So let's just go over
a quick RAID basics.
So everybody in here should be
familiar with multiple levels of RAID.
And I'll tell you,
these were the levels that
were initially defined by
Randy Katz at Berkeley in 1987,
and these are still what
I call the pure RAID levels.
These can be combined with
other RAID levels in here,
and there are some fancy RAID levels
that people are looking at today.
But for the most part,
these are the RAID levels
that everybody does.
And what is a RAID level?
Well, obviously when you start
lowest to highest in number,
you actually increase in redundancy
or availability and performance.
If you start with RAID 0, it's striping.
Not really a true RAID level,
but a lot of people have,
or still are deploying
striping today for speed,
because it's one of the
easiest ways to take a number,
a number of disks, combine them together,
and get performance out of them.
And then probably the most
popular RAID level that's
used out there is mirroring.
This is basically just taking
either one hard drive or a group
of hard drives and mirroring them,
keeping the same data set between them.
So if one were to fail,
you'd have another copy of the data.
This is the photocopy
way of doing things.
It's not very efficient.
It's kind of wasteful, right?
If I have a copy of something,
I make a photocopy,
I wasted two pieces of paper.
It's the same with mirroring.
If I have one hard drive, I mirror it,
I used 100% of the second hard
drive's space for mirroring.
And then as you move up,
really you get to what I would
consider more efficient RAID levels.
And the one that we focus on a lot,
and the one we've optimized for,
is RAID level five.
And the beauty of RAID level five is
that it's a distributed parity scheme.
And what we mean by that is we
actually create an algorithm or a
piece of data on every one of the
hard drives that is a part of the data
that's on the rest of the hard drives.
And essentially what that means is
that if you have a hard drive fail,
we can instantly, virtually on the fly,
recreate that data from
the remaining hard drives.
So you'd have to lose a large
number of hard drives before you'd
actually have a failure or lose data.
And the problem with RAID five
in the past has been that the
performance has not been consistent.
So the read performance is very
similar to that of RAID zero.
It's like striping a bunch of drives.
The performance is better
than a single hard drive.
But the write performance,
especially in random writes,
has been similar.
It's slower.
So people who are doing
things like database or
online transaction processing,
anybody do that type of
work on their systems?
So if you're doing that,
you knew that RAID five was
a bad way to go in the past.
And also,
if you're doing things like video,
anybody doing video here,
streaming video?
If you were streaming video,
RAID five was also terrible.
People went to things like RAID three.
Or in most cases,
they were just doing RAID zero striping.
And with XServe RAID,
we really looked at that.
And we put our team together and built
some really sophisticated algorithms
and some cache and caching schemes that
really make RAID five faster in most
cases than any of the other RAID levels,
including RAID zero.
So our performance is really
quite good in RAID five.
And the protection is really good.
So let's talk about storage
planning a little bit.
This is really the most important
part of deployment and really talking
about a best practices strategy.
And it's really all common sense,
but it's things that we don't
think about on a daily basis.
When we start there,
we have to talk about the three
different approaches to storage.
And some of you may not realize
you're actually deploying a number
of these within your organization.
The first one is direct attach.
So when we talk about
direct attach storage,
what is that?
And there's a lot of different
ways that we look at this.
The first way to look at it is,
a great example is the Xserve G5.
It's locally attached hard drives.
It's the hard drives that are in the
Xserve G5 that become direct attached.
And for the most part,
this is the way traditional
storage was done.
You bought a server,
you put hard drives in the server,
and it was a done deal.
And when you needed more performance,
the servers didn't have
a lot of performance,
you added servers,
and therefore you added storage.
And that's the way things scaled.
And it kind of looked like this.
You had a network down at the bottom,
all your clients, and obviously I could
draw hundreds of clients,
but I'm not that good with drawing.
And you have Ethernet switches,
those are the gray lines,
and then you have the two Xserve G5s.
And in this case,
you could have a terabyte
and a half of storage online,
assuming you left it all in either JBOD,
just a bunch of disks,
or a RAID 0 stripe.
So it's quite a bit of storage.
But the problem is
that it's never enough.
And so you might take
one of your servers,
which is a,
let's call it a high-use server.
This could be your email server,
for instance.
And this could be an Xserve G5,
a Mac OS 10-based server.
This could be a Windows server
or a Linux server.
And you're going to add
some external storage.
Well, that works.
And you might even find
that with the Xserver RAID,
because it's a dual ported,
dual controller design,
that you want to share half of
the storage on one of the boxes
and half the storage on the other.
A little more efficient.
You get the ability to centralize your
storage so that you take advantage of
the high availability of Xserver RAID.
Yet you get to share it over two servers.
Or you might find that that's not
enough and you just want to attach more
storage to your individual servers.
And this is still direct attach.
And this is the way
things have been done.
It's truly a traditional approach.
And it works really easily because
today most people have LAN-based backup.
So you're backing up across the LAN.
Now this was a really good idea
when the data sets were small.
How many people can remember a couple
years ago when your entire organization
ran on a couple hundred servers?
100 gigabytes, right?
I had an experience a few months
ago when GarageBand first came out.
And I was actually on a plane and I went
to install GarageBand on my notebook.
And I put the CD in and
I went to install it.
Actually the DVD.
And it said that I didn't
have enough room.
And this is my notebook.
And I thought, don't I have an 80 gig
hard drive in here?
Well, I had a few keynote presentations
so it was a little hard to do.
But for the most part,
backing this amount of
storage is really easy.
It's a lot of data.
In this case, we would have almost seven
terabytes of data here.
Imagine backing that up across LAN.
Anybody go to the backup
session earlier this week?
So you get an idea.
For those of you who didn't go and
those of you who backup terabytes,
it can really take about,
in an uncompressed environment,
over 24 hours to backup
a terabyte of storage.
So, you know,
the backup windows are shrinking.
So this LAN-based backup doesn't seem
to work very well in this occasion
where you have a lot of storage.
So when you start looking at this,
you go, well, one of the problems is
I need to share the storage,
but I have something like this
where I'm pretty dedicated.
That one XSERV RAID,
let's call it 3.5 terabytes,
is dedicated to that server.
And the other XSERV RAID is
dedicated to the other server.
So my resource sharing is limited.
So I better guess right as to how much
storage I really need on each server.
Let's say one of those servers
needed 6 terabytes and the
other one needed 1 terabyte.
In the direct-attached world,
it's really hard to do, right?
You just can't,
what we'll call provisioning that
storage over between the two systems.
So when you look at this and you
look at that traditional approach,
is it still viable in today's world?
And a lot of people
look at it and they say,
sure, it's viable because it's a
lower initial investment.
I don't have to do much planning.
I know that I can just
buy one and attach it.
But there are problems with scalability
and there's problems with longevity.
Because a lot of times that storage
is internal to your servers and when
it's time to replace the server,
when the call kicks in,
it's time to replace that server,
you end up not having
storage that's compatible.
And that's the beauty of an SSRV RAID if
you deploy it because it's external,
it's fiber channel,
it's just going to plug in.
But you also find out that
you're pretty limited on that
backup and that restoration.
So it's not really the ideal approach.
So what else do you do?
Well, this is what most people do.
Most people have moved to a
network-attached storage model.
They start out with some type of
direct-attach and usually it's many more
than two servers that are out there.
And they take some
type of direct-attached
NAS right onto the network.
So it's attaching to that gray wire
that's there indicating our network.
And in my case,
I chose to take an XSRV G5
and an XSRV RAID and use
that as a NAS replacement.
And that works.
It works and it gives you the
ability to share that storage
across the network to both servers.
So you get some provisioning because
what you can do is you can dedicate,
you don't have to
dedicate those resources,
you can leave them open.
And it has expandability.
But the expandability becomes
limited because what happens
at this point is now the wire
that's coming out of the XSRV G5,
that single Ethernet
becomes the bottleneck.
And because your backbone,
unless you're building a 10
gigabit fiber backbone or just
10 gigabit Ethernet backbone,
you're really pretty limited in the
overall performance it's going to do.
How many people have a 4 gigabit
Ethernet backbone out there?
How about a 10?
So I saw one hand.
How many, you're pretty much limited.
How many people have gigabit backbone?
That's just about everybody out here.
So imagine that if each XSRV G5
can saturate that gigabit backbone,
how is your storage being
attached going to do that?
And this is really what most people do.
Most people have deployed a network
attached specialty appliance.
And they're just an embedded NAS.
So this is a very lightweight NAS server.
And the reason they've done this is
there's no client access licenses,
just like an XSRV G5.
But they're usually inexpensive.
And usually what happens
is you end up with this.
And you end up with a lot of
different little appliances out there.
And the problem with that is that while
it gives you a heterogeneous approach,
and while it has a lower investment,
it is a management nightmare.
And it's very difficult to manage that.
And it's very difficult
to know what's failed.
And you find that you start
plugging them in all over.
And when you have an Ethernet problem,
it's really a problem.
It is a big problem because you
lose accessibility to the storage.
And whether we like it or not,
anybody here ever crimp
an Ethernet cable?
Okay,
if you've crimped an Ethernet cable,
you know that usually one out of
three you're going to screw up.
And usually it fails like six months
later when it's hanging there.
And this is part of the problem with
hanging everything on the network.
That network was made to
deliver small packets.
And it wasn't really made to deliver
the performance and the reliability
to a lot of different servers.
It is truly a collision-based network.
But for most people, that works.
And in fact, most people who start
there tend to move to this,
the NAS appliances.
And we know who they are.
They're generally extremely
expensive in a per-gigabyte cost.
But they have a lot of features.
They do things like snapshotting,
which means that you can
replicate the data really quickly.
And they're appliance-like.
They're generally easy deployment.
They have a built-in file system.
And for the most part,
these very high-end appliances have
an operating system and a file system.
And they also have the downside
of being a single-vendor lock-in.
You're, for the most part,
using their management tools
and you're having to buy them
again and again and again.
And it gets pretty expensive.
And we all know those people.
And they're good things.
They're companies like
Network Appliance and EMC.
They build really nice products.
And they still have the issue
of having that single point
of connectivity to Ethernet.
Now,
they may have multiple Ethernet ports,
but generally, you're not going to have
hundreds of Ethernet switches.
You're going to have one or
two very high-end switches.
And what if you don't have a hundred?
You're going to have a
high-end infrastructure.
You're really funneling
everything through Gigabit.
Has anybody here ever seen Gigabit
Ethernet perform at Gigabit?
So, that's one of the other issues
that we run into all the time.
So, what is the choice?
The choice is to build a SAN.
And it sounds like a lot of people
out here have already taken that step,
at least.
So, what does a basic SAN look
like and where do they scale?
Well,
most people who build a SAN start out
again with that direct-attached model.
They start out there
and they add storage.
And I'm going to go in a fiber
channel switch in here because
I knew I was building a SAN.
So, from a best practices standpoint,
I want to start out with expandability
and scalability already in there.
And you can take an XSERV RAID today and
you can use a tool called LUN masking.
And you can map each address,
almost like a MAC address,
but we call it a fiber
channel worldwide port name.
And we would map those worldwide
port names very easily in the
RAID admin utility to each server.
So, we can have a provisioned
storage to each server.
So, the servers can't see
each other's storage,
but they see the storage they have.
Really simple implementation.
And I can add more.
And as I add more,
I don't degrade my performance
because my back channel network
is a specialized network called
fiber channel in this case.
And fiber channel is a non-blocking
network infrastructure and my
performance scales as my capacity scales.
And we call that a SAN island.
And then people will scale it out.
So, as you scale it out,
the server becomes more heterogeneous.
The servers become MACs, PCs, Linux.
Hopefully they're all MACs.
But as you scale it out,
now you can start to deploy more storage
on more servers and you're not limited.
And you can reprovision
that storage as you need to.
And in some cases, the manual process.
In other cases,
there are partners that can help us
provision that storage instantaneously
and without any interruption of service.
[Transcript missing]
If we look at that mission-critical
storage environment,
I picked one, an interesting one here,
because I said I'm not
going to pick one on Macs.
I'm going to pick one on Windows.
So this is a Windows 2003 advanced server
with Microsoft clustering environment.
In this case,
it cost about $6 a gigabyte to deliver
fully redundant mission-critical storage.
And this is something that today you'd
have to spend an incredible amount of
money to deliver this with other systems.
And this is really made
possible by Xserve RAID.
So in this case, you've got a lot of
storage to two servers,
and it's really simple
and easy to deploy.
Now here's your typical three-tier
storage infrastructure the
way it usually really looks.
It's more than one storage device,
it's more than one server,
and it's heterogeneous.
And so you do have a storage
pool that's mission critical,
a business critical pool,
and a near-line pool.
That's really the way it looks.
And today, with XSAN, you can build this.
Or at least when XSAN is released,
I should say.
So it all comes down to which
storage approach is best,
and it really depends.
And what it depends on
The other thing that's interesting
is that 50% of the managers
consider heterogeneous storage
to be a strategic goal for them.
So when we talk about interoperability,
this is important.
So if you don't have an
all Apple infrastructure,
you don't have an all Windows or an all
Linux or an all Solaris infrastructure,
you really need to be heterogeneous.
And I think the most important thing
is that 52% of the people surveyed,
and I think they surveyed
about 1,000 IT managers,
they view the reduced maintenance costs
as proof of a return on investment.
So when you look at
deploying tiered storage,
probably in that high tier of
storage that's 40 to $100 a gigabyte,
you pay that same amount
in maintenance every year.
And that's really where the cost is.
So when you look at, well,
I can tier this,
and I can reduce my cost both in
the initial cost of the system
and in the maintenance cost,
that's really what it's all about.
And can I deliver those same services?
We think so.
So if you're doing storage planning,
there's a few things to look at.
It's really, well,
what do I already have?
What do I really need?
How much is it going to cost?
And so let's take a
look at some of those.
The first one is existing infrastructure.
There's two things that
people don't look at here.
The first one is,
how old is the existing infrastructure?
I hear this term all the time,
and I guarantee everyone in this audience
has used it in storage at least once.
It's called legacy.
They all say,
I have legacy storage that I need
to connect to my new storage.
Anybody ever say that?
Yeah, we say it a lot, right?
Legacy storage.
Well, what does that mean?
Does anybody here realize
storage wears out?
I mean, that's another thing that
people don't realize.
In the year 2000, I paid $2 million for
this three-letter acronym,
storage.
And I have to amortize it
over the next 10 years because
I paid a lot of money for it.
Well, storage wears out.
It's rotating media.
It's not as bad as tires on a car,
but it does wear out.
So you have to plan on depreciating
that storage over three to five
years and getting it out of there.
And when you do,
are you going to buy that same
monolithic storage you bought before,
or are you going to look differently?
The other thing to really look at is,
have you considered a tiered approach,
lowering the overall cost of storage,
putting that expensive storage in
your mission-critical areas and
putting lower-cost storage in the
business-critical and the near line?
It's something to really consider.
And then the other one is
true capacity requirements.
And since most of us don't really know
what our requirements are going to be,
we can take a guess.
But, you know,
who would have thought that
from 1998 to 2003 that storage
would have been growing,
from a needs standpoint,
110 percent per year?
Not a lot of people
would have guessed that,
and they would have guessed low.
So in deploying something
like a storage area network,
it allows you to actually
grow with that storage.
So you get scalability up, down, in, out,
every way you can look at.
So you can redeploy the
storage and reprovision it.
So you need to look at
today and look at tomorrow.
I think the other important
thing is throughput.
So we talk about network
attach versus storage area
networks versus direct attach.
In the storage area network world,
in the direct attach world,
the performance is going to be
bottlenecked by the limitation of
either the server or the storage.
They're the limitations.
In the network attach model,
the throughput or the storage performance
is going to be limited by the network.
So you have to determine
what is my application.
Is it megabytes per second?
Is it IOs per second?
And how many clients do
I actually have out there?
So you really have to look at that.
The other one is really
availability requirements.
Do I need it to really
be up 24 hours a day,
seven days a week with no downtime?
Or can I have a reasonable
two to four hour downtime?
It could be five minutes,
but let's just assume it's four o'clock
in the morning and something happens and
it's going to be two hours of downtime.
Is that reasonable?
Is it business critical?
Does it need to be archived?
How often does it need to be archived?
Can I use near line?
These are all questions you have to ask
and you have to answer these yourself
because there's really no one who
can tell you what your business model
looks like because they vary so much.
In fact,
you'll find that most of the people
selling very high end storage will
dictate your business model to you.
And that's not necessarily
the right way to do it.
And the other one is
really disaster recovery.
So there's been a couple things
that have really driven that.
One, of course,
was 9/11 and none of us really wanted
that to happen and none of us wanted to
have to bear what happened afterward and
that was rethink our storage strategy.
Let's get this off site.
And there's really two ways to do it.
One is to deploy remote replication.
Very expensive.
Generally, it doubles your cost because
not only do you usually have
to replicate the storage,
you have to replicate servers and
infrastructure and everything.
And the other one is an
off site backup service.
And you can even carry it off site.
Small companies, you know,
the CFO carries the tapes home.
And in large companies,
there are companies like
Iron Mountain that will come pick
up your tapes and they'll even load
them and unload them if you need to.
So it's really a cost driven thing.
And when you talk about that,
you really need to talk about compliance.
Because one of the other things,
anybody here that falls under
Sarbanes-Oxley or know that they do?
So a lot of larger
companies are doing this.
And they're actually using
the same technology that's
used in the last five years.
So they're using the same technology.
So you can see that the government
is taking this very seriously
and it's starting to move to
Europe and it's starting to move
farther throughout the world.
So this type of compliance that say
that you have to find every email for
the last seven years in 24 hours and
deliver it to the Justice Department,
that's a pretty huge requirement.
Especially how many of you can go
through the tapes you have today
and find something from yesterday.
It's usually a pretty hard thing to do.
So it is good practice to have a budget.
But it's also important to have a budget.
And I think that's the most important
thing about a budget is that you
have to have someone that you can
trust that can give you the right
advice and that's looking out for you.
And if they're just telling you today
that this is the right thing to do,
then you're going to have to have
someone that you can trust that
can give you the right advice
and that's looking out for you.
And if they're just telling you today
that this is the right thing to do,
then you're going to have to have
someone that you can trust that
can give you the right advice
and that's looking out for you.
And if they're just telling you today
that this is the right thing to do,
then you're going to have to have
someone that you can trust that
can give you the right advice
and that's looking out for you.
And if they're just telling you
today that this is absolutely what
it's going to cost and there's
no other way of doing this,
I think you need to think different.
So what I want to do
with that is really talk,
bring up Ryan Klein,
who's a SAN architect at Qlogic,
to talk to you about basically the
one area that we hear all the time,
and that is fiber channel best practices.
If I'm going to deploy a
network and basically a SAN,
how do I do it and how do
I lower the cost in it?
And Ryan's going to tell us about
some great exciting stuff here.
So what I want to do
with that is really talk,
bring up Ryan Klein,
who's a SAN architect at Qlogic,
to talk to you about basically the
one area that we hear all the time,
and that is fiber channel best practices.
If I'm going to deploy a
network and basically a SAN,
how do I do it and how do
I lower the cost in it?
[Transcript missing]
from One End to the Other.
When building small networks,
starting as small as
eight fiber channel ports,
growing up to very large networks
such as 64 and 128 port SANs,
and deploying a very scalable,
cost-effective architecture.
And then we're going to talk a little
bit about SAN interoperability.
Alex touched on this as being
a very important part of
deploying a storage area network,
and it's really key to making sure
that all the componentry that you
have works together and is supported
and there are solutions that
you're not going to have to deploy.
not going to run into any issues with.
So we talked a little bit about all
of these components that Qlogic makes.
So how does this come to you?
What are the strategies that allow
you to make use of these products?
Well, what we're going to start to see
is that we integrate our products
into the SANs that you go deploy.
So you'll see Fiber Channel HBAs
inside of the servers,
taking our Fiber Channel ASICs,
iSCSI ASICs,
putting them on the motherboard.
Most people today who
have deployed servers have
IP integrated on the motherboard.
You're probably familiar
with SCSI on the motherboard.
Same thing is happening
here with Fiber Channel.
We also integrate switches into
the componentry that we have.
So if you look at a lot of the bladed
environments that are out there today,
they've taken the technology,
such as the Sandbox 5200,
which today is deployed in a box product,
and they've integrated it right
into the back end of those products.
So moving forward,
storage boxes like Xserve RAID and
various other storage boxes have
the ability to integrate switching
architectures into those boxes.
And there's a lot of things like
that that will be coming out.
We're simplifying and lowering costs.
And what does that really mean to you?
So when Alex asked how many people here
are storage administrators and have
dedicated people deploying storage,
I only think I saw one
person raise their hand.
So what does that really mean?
Well, essentially,
everybody here has a lot of different
responsibilities and functions
within their IT organizations,
as in their developing products.
So you're not necessarily a SAN expert.
You know you have storage out there.
You know that a storage area network
makes sense for your deployment,
but you don't necessarily want to have
to know every single parameter and
all of the detailed implementations
to configure these types of things.
So what we're doing is we're
building intelligent software
that allows us to configure
automatically these environments,
as well as provide ease of use to you
so that you don't have to worry about
all those detailed implementations.
The final thing that we're really
doing here is we're delivering
turnkey SAN infrastructures.
So what this means is it
gives you the ability to,
from a single perspective,
buy all the componentry that you need
to deploy a storage area network.
So today, you know, we need servers,
we need the interconnects,
and we need your storage.
Well, what are all the pieces and parts
that you need to go deploy a SAN?
If you're not very familiar
with all the componentry,
it could be somewhat overwhelming.
So the idea is to provide a turnkey
solution that allows you to purchase
the storage networking switch,
all of the optics and things
like that that are required,
all of the cabling,
as well as the host bus adapters
that go inside the servers,
and to be able to do that in
a heterogeneous environment.
So these types of kits
allow you to cross Windows,
Linux, NetWare, Solaris, as well as OS X,
to deploy heterogeneous environments
and manage them from a single location.
Talk a little about expanded management,
and this is what I just mentioned.
We have something called our
SAN Surfer Management Suite,
and this is a device management tool.
It's Java-based and really
complements the Xserve RAID GUI.
So Alex talked about LUN mapping,
LUN masking,
the ability to point specific
LUNs at specific servers.
This software really complements this,
and what you're looking at here
is a picture of our brand-new,
just-released OS X GUI for
the Sandbox 5200 switch.
What this allows you to do is
configure the specific SAN ports,
switches, and all the functionality in
a heterogeneous environment,
crossing all the applications
that we show at the top there.
It works out really well and
complements all of the Apple tools,
and is Java-based, as I mentioned.
Let's talk a little bit about
the switch market and what you've
probably seen in the past and
where we believe switching to go.
So here's a basic SAN.
This is a four-switch mesh.
You see a bunch of Xserve
servers at the top,
Xserve RAID at the bottom,
some tape backup, as well as some
heterogeneous environments.
And if you wanted to go deploy
this environment or something
similar to this a few years ago,
Those are some rough numbers of what
you'd see and what it would cost.
The switching environment
really stands out here.
Four switches there cost
roughly $20,000 apiece,
roughly going to about
$80,000 for the total,
so that's a large part
of the overall SAN.
It was cost prohibitive for a
lot of people to put together
storage area networks.
So what did we see?
We saw most SANs being deployed
at the large enterprise.
And from a show of hands
earlier this morning,
most people here aren't
deployed large enterprises.
They're more on the small
to medium business side.
So SANs are really cost prohibitive.
As we move forward,
one of the strategies that we're
working with Apple on is to be able
to bring storage area networks,
the functionality that
Xserve RAID brings you,
down to the small to medium
business and be able to develop
the platforms at the sub-$15,000
level for the entire solution,
as well as still scaling all
the way up to the enterprise.
So the Sandbox 264 switch is a
chassis-based switch that allows
you to be at the very high end here,
as well as the Sandbox 5500.
The Sandbox 5200,
which we're going to talk
about in a few minutes,
really allows us to scale all
the way from eight ports through
the small to medium business
there all the way up to 64 ports.
[Transcript missing]
At the same time,
the embedded switches start
to come into play here.
Taking that switching technology
and putting it directly into
the storage arrays or directly
into bladed environments for
servers and things like that,
really reducing cost and complexity.
So using the last two
slides and comparing them to
this one and the next one,
in the past we had the chassis-based
high availability directors,
large port count, as well as we had the 8
and 16 port fixed switches.
So of the folks in the audience
that raised their hand regarding
having switch infrastructure,
how many people here deploy
chassis-based or director class switches?
I see one or two hands, so almost nobody.
So everybody else here,
by a show of hands,
eight 16-port switches, fixed port?
Okay, so right there,
you're really locked into a
strategy where if you want
to scale that environment,
you have to take another switch
and connect it in via an inner
switch link and start using up those
valuable end-user ports to do that.
So where do we see this going?
Stackable switch market.
Stackable switch market allows
you to scale an environment.
You can still continue to
leverage the existing eight and
16-port switches that you have,
but you connect them directly into the
stackable switch and scale that way.
And then if you need
the high availability,
high port count switches,
you start using the
chassis-based switches,
and you see how they
complement each other,
giving you a choice to scale from
fixed port environment through
stackable all the way up to the
high port count chassis switches.
to really be able to pick the right
switch for the right application.
So here's a little bit of a view
of the industry and the major
players that are out there and some
of the products that they have.
So most of you are probably
familiar with Cisco,
small little company, McData, Brocade,
as well as Qlogic.
And you see that everybody out there
really is offering fixed port switches,
not giving you too much
choice or scalability.
Qlogic has come along and really
been disruptive and is offering
the Sandbox 5200 as well as the
Blade switch in the bottom right.
But one thing that you'll notice
about stackable switches is they offer
all of the functionality that you
would get from a fixed port switch,
as well as they're offering
you functionality that you'd
see at the director class.
So things like non-disruptive code load.
Everybody here uses patches all the time.
Well, as we move forward,
we provide updated software
and functionality to switch.
Infrastructure part,
you want to make sure that you're
up on the latest and greatest code.
Well, you probably don't want to bring
down your environment to do that.
Sandbox 5200 allows you to upgrade
firmware dynamically without
affecting your storage area network.
Other big things here
are management software.
This is really important because it
allows you to manage the environment and
doesn't cost additional money to you,
as well as all of the features
such as monitoring and
performance and things like that.
These are all things that are included
in these environments where you may not
get those in a fixed port environment.
So we're going to introduce
here the Sandbox 5200 to you.
By a show of hands,
how many people here are
familiar with the 5200 switch?
That's great.
That's a great number of people here.
So the 5200 has 16 2G
ports and 4 10G ports.
So the 16 2G ports really kind of be
viewed as a fixed port architecture.
What the 4 10G ports,
and you got cut off here
on the right-hand side,
but I'll show it to you in a later slide,
are used to interconnect
those switches together.
It's a 1U box.
It's managed just like an
IP switch would be managed.
It has an Ethernet port
as well as an RS-232 port.
It has something that we
call configuration wizards.
I mentioned this a little bit earlier.
Configuration wizards allow you
to step-by-step configure and
deploy a storage area network
without having to know all of
the details required to do so.
5200 can be deployed in about five
minutes from a configuration standpoint.
And you're ready to start plugging
in XR RAID boxes automatically
discovered and configured.
And you don't have to worry
about what's happening and why.
It does it all for you.
IO StreamGuard.
For the folks in here that do full
stream video as well as backups,
this is a really cool feature
that I'll talk about in a minute.
But it's the type of feature and
functionality that Qlogic works
with Apple on to ensure that
we're serving all of the needs
of the folks like yourselves.
IO StreamGuard.
For the folks in here that do full
stream video as well as backups,
this is a really cool feature
that I'll talk about in a minute.
But it's the type of feature and
functionality that Qlogic works
with Apple on to ensure that
we're serving all of the needs
of the folks like yourselves.
IO StreamGuard.
For the folks in here that do full
stream video as well as backups,
this is a really cool feature
that I'll talk about in a minute.
But it's the type of feature and
functionality that Qlogic works
with Apple on to ensure that
we're serving all of the needs
of the folks like yourselves.
IO StreamGuard.
For the folks in here that do full
stream video as well as backups,
this is a really cool feature
that I'll talk about in a minute.
But it's the type of feature and
functionality that Qlogic works
with Apple on to ensure that
we're serving all of the needs
of the folks like yourselves.
10GIG ISLs, this is really a disruptive
technology to the industry.
We're the first switch to
have 10GIG functionality,
and we use it on the
right-hand side there.
You see those copper interconnect cables.
Left-hand side here is a picture
of a large 64-port mesh that
you would have to create if you
wanted fixed-port environments.
So if you wanted to scale that large,
that's what the environment looks like.
It requires 30 cables just to
connect the infrastructure together.
And by the way,
those ports that you had to use,
you can't use for your devices,
your tape drives and your disk
drives and your servers anymore.
In a 64-port stack using
Qlogic on the right-hand side,
you get to use all 64 ports.
You don't lose those valuable user
ports when deploying a 5200 solution.
Not to mention the amount of cables
and infrastructure mess that you would
have to manage with 30 cables and the
redundancy problems that you might have.
The other thing to mention
here is the 10GIG speed.
You'll be able to connect those switches
together with a 10GIG bandwidth.
And in a fixed-port environment,
even if you started out with two switches
and you scaled the third and the fourth,
you're only having a 2GIG
bandwidth between those switches.
So that's one major aspect of the 5200
that really brings a lot of advantage.
Breakthrough ease of use.
So, you know,
QLogic really looked at what
Apple had done with Xserve RAID and
the GUIs and the tools and the
ease of use that's available today.
You know,
that's one of the biggest things
that you hear about Apple software
is how easy it is to use.
We took the lead there from them,
and we were able to integrate that
type of technology into the software
that we have for the Sandbox 5200,
as well as the SandServer
management suite that we've built.
Really being able to provide a
stackable architecture with all the
value-added software that's easy to use.
We really think that's important,
and it's really looked at as a best
practice in the industry because
it provides you with ease of use.
So here's IO StreamGuard.
I mentioned this before.
This is a really cool
feature with QLogic switches.
It's exclusive to QLogic switches.
And for those of you that aren't
familiar with the process,
when you bring a server up and down
on a SAN or reboot a server on a SAN,
something called an RSCN,
a Registered State Change Notification,
goes out.
And what that is,
is that server telling every
other server on the SAN,
hey, I'm here or I'm gone.
Well, when that happens,
it's only a split second.
But if you have server A talking to disk
A and server B reboots and comes back up,
and this RSCN goes around the SAN fabric,
server A momentarily pauses.
If you're in an OLTP environment running
a database or something like that,
not really a big deal.
If you're streaming video or
you're streaming a backup and
all of a sudden there's a pause,
what do you think happens to the screen?
This is not a good thing if you're
doing high-definition broadcast.
So this feature that we have
called I/O Stream Guard allows
that switch port to not acknowledge
something called an RSCN.
That way you can have continuous
streaming video or streaming backup
without having that port go down.
This is exclusive to the 5200
and really plays well with Xserve
RAID as well as the customers
that use this type of technology.
So best practices in
SAN interoperability.
SAN interoperability is
something very important,
and it's something you need to look at
when you're deploying SAN solutions.
Historically,
interoperability really meant
connecting product A with product B.
Does it work?
And it seemed like a game.
You didn't really understand
how it worked and what to do.
And most of that has gone away,
and a lot of it has to do with
things like the SAN interoperability
guide that QLogic put together.
This is something that's
available on our website,
and you can go to
QLogic.com and download it.
Really what it is, is a guide that allows
you to build a SAN.
It covers close to 60 different
partners in the industry,
from QLogic to Apple to
backup companies like Veritas.
All the ISVs and IHVs out there,
multiple storage vendors,
multiple software vendors.
And what it really is,
is a guide that allows you to know.
What works with what,
and how to put it together.
Really key that you use a document
like this when you're building a SAN.
Everything from the infrastructure
components all the way up
to the application layer,
to know what's out there
and what works with what.
Great document.
Switch interoperability is also
something very important to Qlogic
and something we work on continuously.
Of the folks in the room,
there was a number of people
that had deployed 5200s.
How many of you have
deployed brocade switches?
Great, there's only a few of you.
I like that.
So the idea here, though,
is that there are going to
be a lot of people that have
used other vendor switches.
And sometimes you're going to
hear somebody say you have to
stay in a homogeneous environment.
If you want to add another
switch or grow to more ports,
you have to buy another Brocade
or another McData switch.
That's really not the case anymore.
You know,
there's a lot of advantages to using
something like the Sandbox 5200 as you
continue to scale your environment.
But at the same time,
you don't want to forklift out
the switches that you have.
So this type of a document is a best
practices switch interoperability
document that gives you step-by-step
procedures on how to configure
new technologies like the Sandbox
5200 with legacy technologies
from companies like Brocade,
the fixed port architectures
and things like that.
So keep your existing technology,
continue to scale your environment,
and we give you step-by-step
procedures on how to do that.
And something that really gives
an advantage to you when you're
growing those environments.
So the other thing we like to
do is really educate our users,
our developers,
and provide documentation.
All the documents that I've
been talking about fall under
an umbrella called QLogic Press.
And it's really an educational arm of
QLogic that is designed to provide really
great white papers and documentation
about common SAN deployments.
So as Alex described the various
areas of NAS and DAS and SAN,
of course QLogic is focused on SAN.
And what we like to do is provide
procedures and step-by-step
and deployment scenarios
for SAN infrastructures.
And this is a series of
guides that we built.
This one is an Xserve
RAID-focused document.
And it really gives you an
idea of common topologies,
how to configure, how to deploy.
There was a lot of topology
screens that Alex showed you.
And those are in these types of guides.
Plus, it tells you how to configure it.
So that can be very complex, very quick.
You know, lines everywhere and devices
connected and multi-pathing
and heterogeneous environments.
I've got a network server.
I have a Linux server.
How do I connect that in?
How do I do LUN mapping?
How do I do LUN masking?
We try to take all of that complexity
out of it by putting together
guides like this with step-by-step
screenshots that give you the
ability to go deploy effectively.
So in summary,
Qlogic is an I/O technology leader.
We want to provide you with
the infrastructure to move
your data from your server to
your storage via a SAN network.
We make fiber channel switches as
well as fiber channel HBAs that
cross heterogeneous environments.
You can deploy in numerous solution
environments as well as manage
them from a central location.
In addition,
we have new technologies like the
Sandbox 5200 that you're going to see
just continuously become easier to use,
more functionality,
as well as price being reduced
to enable more people to deploy
SANs and take advantage of all
the aspects of shared storage.
The ability to pool your storage to
more effectively back up your storage,
as well as to use SAN to
better your businesses.
We touched on interoperability
and how important interoperability
is to your environment,
making sure that when you
build SAN environments,
you take advantage of things like
the SAN Interoperability Guide.
That guide gives you all
the visibility to what works
with what and how to deploy,
as well as taking advantage of things
like the Xserve RAID Configuration
Guide that we put together.
And finally,
you're going to see Apple and
QLogic working closer together to
continue to bring you solutions
documents and things like that,
and to continue to build environments
that take complexity out,
as well as allow you to
scale SAN environments,
and really take a competitive
advantage over your competitors,
as well as building solutions
that allow you to scale from small
environments all the way up to large 64,
128 port count environments.
Thank you.
That was great, Ryan.
I brought one of those SAN configuration
guides just to give you an idea
how thick and complete this is.
And I can tell you that with this guide,
just about anybody is able to
build a SAN with an Xserve RAID.
Now, obviously, if you're doing something
like deploying an Xserve RAID,
an Xserve, you're deploying XSAN,
you know, the physical part is
really going to be hard.
I mean, it really is.
How do I set that switch?
What do I do?
If I've got video,
do I need to turn something on,
turn something off?
And it's all in here,
and these are available
online from QLogic,
so thank you, Ryan, for doing that.
What I'm going to do now is I'm
actually going to turn it over
to Steve Terlizzi from Candera,
who's going to really talk to us
about an interesting case study
that we put together with Candera,
and where the customer
is actually Shai Day,
who is a large ad agency.
It just happens to be Apple's ad agency,
just had nothing to do with that,
actually.
But they were really facing
something that is something
that everyone faces out there,
and it's really a mission-critical
storage environment and an issue they
had for a long time in heterogeneosity.
And Candera, Apple,
and QLogic all got involved,
and we're able to really do
something that's incredible.
So, Steven,
do you want to take the stage here,
please?
Sure.
Thank you.
So, one of the interesting things when
you start to look at what Apple,
Qlogic, and Candera are talking about
is addressing the needs of
mission-critical storage,
but not at the prices that the
big players and the big vendors
are pushing on the Fortune 200,
Fortune 500 companies.
What they tend to miss is the fact that
there's a large number of companies
that need mission-critical storage,
need the availability, the performance,
the performance scalability
that you could find in a
monolithic storage device,
but certainly not at the $40 per
gigabyte plus that you typically see
when you look at a monolithic device.
So, today I'm going to talk about
Chiat Day and how they built their
mission-critical infrastructure on
a combination of Qlogic and Candera.
So, let's start with the
first part of the session,
which is the Qlogic, Candera,
and Apple products.
Then talk a little bit
about this new architecture,
the ability to build
this intelligent ATA,
and then close it up
with what that means.
How much can you apply this
to your infrastructure,
whether you're an enterprise
or a small to medium business?
And, of course, the Qlogic.
[Transcript missing]
About 50?
Over 100?
It's actually over 100.
Now, we scaled it down to about
40 by rationalizing it,
but when we were developing it,
it was over 100 megabytes.
Now, imagine 500 professionals working
daily with multiple copies of
presentations of this level of quality,
trying to do digital content,
and you can see how quickly it can grow.
And this is their business.
They're responding to very tight
deadlines of clients that are paying
a lot of money for advertising that
don't want to see things missed.
And they need the access all
the time because creative people
like that work very long hours,
very vigorous hours.
And so, Chiat Day, this facility in LA,
needed 7 terabytes of storage
to handle 500 clients.
Their New York office
needed 21 terabytes.
So what did they have originally?
What was the before?
The before was a heterogeneous
server environment made up of Novell,
Apple, HP servers,
all with direct attached storage.
So every server had its own storage,
different departments had different
projects on different servers,
and sure enough,
the server that had available storage,
that department didn't need the storage,
while the department that really
needed the storage had a server
that had no storage on it.
So they ended up having an environment
that was very difficult to manage,
very poor utilization.
The other aspect to Chiat Day is
this is not a Goldman Sachs that
has a liberal IT department.
It was a very limited
IT staff and a limited budget.
So they needed to focus on how can
I build this infrastructure that
I can manage most cost effectively.
The other thing is storage planning.
How do I plan for the growth?
How do I plan for the scaling?
As they brought more and more
services and more clients on,
it's an unpredictable demand flow.
They land a big client,
they need more storage very quickly.
How do they respond to that environment?
And the other thing is
with a DAS environment,
backup is difficult.
And in an environment where
you have high availability,
they need to be able to consistently
backup and restore that data.
In this DAS environment,
you have different backup regimes.
So what we did is we recommended a SAN.
We took a pair of 5200, Qlogic 5200s,
and what we call a Candera
Apple ATA appliance,
which is a number of Apple Xserve
RAIDs aggregated with Candera's
network storage controller.
And what that allowed them to do
is deploy a very easy SAN storage.
The Qlogic SAN provided the connectivity.
The Candera Apple ATA appliance provided
this storage that could be deployed in
seconds and provisioned very quickly.
The other aspect to this is the
fiber channel level of reliability.
When Chayote went out to look and say,
"What can I buy?" They looked
at fiber channel storage,
modular and monolithic storage,
because they believed
that's what they needed.
When Candera and Apple came in and said,
"No, you can do this using
serial ATA technology,"
they looked at us and said,
"You've got to be kidding." But we
were able to provide the kind of
active-active high availability,
the kind of tracing and diagnostics
that you typically find in a
monolithic storage device with
the Candera Apple solution.
Also, it allowed you to
centralize the data assets.
So I could have the physical storage
here of the Apple Xserve RAIDs,
and then with the virtualization
and the centralized management
provided by Candera,
I could create virtual LUNs
that I could very flexibly
provision to the various hosts.
And those hosts were heterogeneous hosts,
including HP, Apple, Novell environments.
The other key aspect to that is
the error detection and correction.
So when you look at a SAN environment,
when there's a problem
in the environment,
maybe a flaky HPA or something
that goes awry on the storage,
it's difficult to diagnose.
The more complex the SAN gets,
the more difficult.
But with an aggregating element in there,
you can then do very quick
error detection and diagnosis.
And the other aspect and the
other benefit to this is,
by moving from a DAS environment
to a SAN environment,
you de-link the storage from the hosts.
Consequently,
it's very easy to replace hosts,
to add new hosts,
and to buy smaller servers.
So were they happy?
So this is the quote from
Chiat Day where they said,
basically,
we didn't think we could do our
storage infrastructure on ATA,
but Candera and Apple were able to
deliver that at a fraction of the
cost of monolithic or modular storage.
They were so happy that after the
evaluation with the LA system,
they bought the 21 terabyte
New York system at the same time.
And they had planned a phased
implementation and they
bought everything up front.
So what is this partnership
with Candera and Apple?
Why are we together?
What are we doing?
The Candera Apple ATA appliance
takes the components,
takes the guts of what you'd find
in a monolithic storage device by
way of fine-grained virtualization
and centralized management,
and uses that to aggregate
Apple's superior ATA technology.
So when you look at a monolithic device,
what you typically find,
and pull back all the sheet metal,
you find components that
handle connectivity and
virtualization and management,
components that provide RAID processing
and those types of things.
And they're able to scale because as
you need performance and capacity,
you add more controllers.
As you need connectivity,
you add more disk adapters,
channel adapters.
So you can scale the performance.
As you need modular
devices can't do that,
but the combination of Candera
plus Apple allow you to do that.
They allow you to scale both the
performance and capacity together.
Also, enterprise class,
the high availability,
the ability to do active-active failover,
the fault tolerance,
those types of things are very important.
When you look at environments,
we talked about legacy storage
and how messy it can be in there.
What we allow you to do is start by
building this ATA appliance and then
start to bring in your legacy storage
and provide one centralized approach.
So interoperability becomes very easy.
And so when you look,
it's now a new approach
to a storage architecture.
Monolithic approach
was the first approach.
Big, manageable scales,
but very expensive.
Modular starts small, but doesn't scale.
Now you have this intelligent
ATA approach that allows
you to start small,
but aggregate all those devices
into one big virtual disk.
In fact, the combination of Candara
and Apple allow you to build
an architecture that matches
that monolithic architecture.
What does that mean?
What that means is you can manage
everything from one centralized
approach and have a management GUI that
will work and allow you to scale
and work like a monolithic device.
[Transcript missing]
Fantastic.
Thanks, Steve.
I appreciate it.
You can see that today there's
a lot of choices in storage.
And the Candera and Apple solution
is an interesting one.
It's one where you can actually
take high-performance storage,
combine it with the feature
sets that you get in very,
very expensive monolithic storage,
those three-letter
acronym name companies,
and you can really build a system
that is very cost-effective
and scales a lot better.
And so what I want to do
really quickly is wrap up,
and we're probably not going
to have time for Q&A today,
so what we're going to end up
doing is talking to you afterward.
But just to wrap it up real quickly,
I think when you look at the
summary of what we've talked about,
the first thing is to remember is budget.
Budget's going to dictate
your infrastructure,
and we think we have a
building block storage product
that allows you to do that.
The second thing is that complexity
is always going to equal cost.
So the more complex it gets,
the more it's going to cost.
And of course,
scalability is something you
need to address up front.
And you have to really look,
when you're talking about scaling it,
is what is your real-world
usage of the systems?
And you don't want to overlook
the backup needs that you have,
because a lot of people say, well,
I'm putting in RAID storage,
I no longer need to backup.
And nothing could be farther
from the truth than that.
When you put in RAID storage,
what you need to do is be more
concerned about backup because
you get a false sense of security.
And then the last thing
is consider tier storage.
Because if you look at tiered storage
and you look at these approaches and
not spend that money on that monolithic
storage for everything you need,
you can build an infrastructure that
matches your needs going forward.
And I can guarantee you one thing,
and that's that we're going to
continue to drive the ease of use
and the price of storage down.
I appreciate everyone's time today.
Thank you very much.